[Music]
hi
my name is elizabeth i'm a medical
student and an artist living in london
and i wanted to share my exact method
for teaching myself to read at three
times the speed according to google the
average reading speed
is around 300 words per minute and i can
now comfortably read at 900 words per
minute
you would be very right in asking
yourself what would possess me to do
such a thing
so i just wanted to explain my reasoning
behind doing this
as a medical student i am always taking
exams which are usually under
strict time constraints so the faster i
can read
the chances are the better i will
perform in these exams and secondly i
really love
books and although i absolutely do not
use speed reading for any books that i
read for
entertainment i also like non-fiction
and i find that non-fiction authors kind
of
bash me on the head with so many
descriptive examples and
fluff that a huge part of the book is a
bit
pointless to read but i have a huge fear
of fomo when it comes to books so
on the other hand i want to read the
whole thing so i'm left in a situation
where the faster i can blitz through the
non-important parts
the better for me and the third reason
is i've been kind of obsessed with being
a speed reader my whole life and i guess
when i was younger i thought it would
make me popular in school to be the
fastest reader but as an adult it
doesn't really make me any extra friends
but it does allow me to read most books
in
somewhere between one and two hours so
if this is a skill that you are also
interested in having
this video might be helpful for you now
i have tried
many many things when it comes to
teaching myself to speed read everything
from following with my finger to trying
to silence the reading voice in my head
to trying to dart my eyes only in the
middle of the text and not the sides
i've tried all these various things
which have helped but nothing
absolutely nothing has supercharged
my reading speed as much as speechify i
am very grateful to the producers of
this app
who i think quite unintentionally have
created
the best mechanism for learning to speed
read before that just a tiny little
preface
that one this process is absolutely no
fun there is
no pleasure in reading this way number
two it does take a lot of work it's
weeks or even
months of dedication to get yourself to
significantly increase your reading
speed
and number three it will sound so
shocking at first i remember when i
thought only heavens listened to youtube
at 1.25 speed
and now i listen to it at 3.5 or four
speed so
i remember what it sounded like and i
apologize in advance finally after all
that let's get into the method itself so
i have downloaded speechify on my phone
already
usually when i read books i use my phone
to do this
and i'll just open the speechify up i
already have a video where i explain how
to upload a book so i'll link that down
below
but for this example i will be using ego
is the enemy by ryan holiday which is a
wonderful book to read and a very good
example for this
because my very first tip would be in
the choice of book i would recommend
that you use a kind of non-fictionish
psychology self-helpish book to get
yourself to read faster
and the reason for this is if you pick
something like principles of cardiology
this is a book
that we would read slower than usual in
any case it would be very difficult to
speed read
something like that i would pick
something descriptive i've uploaded the
book
and the app tells me how much time it
will take for me to read it
and at my speed now it will take just
over an hour
so before we get started actually let me
show you what it sounds like at 900
speed
okay it sounds horrific i'm really
really sorry um it's traumatizing in the
beginning
i get that step number one we've
uploaded the book step number two
is setting the speed i would recommend
that you set it initially
to an average reading speed which
according to google is apparently 300
so let me just do that and now let's see
what that sounds like
good his life has much difficulty and
sadness and remains far behind yours
wear it otherwise yep that sounds a bit
more acceptable than normal
so now what i would do is press the
automatic button
on the bottom right hand corner of the
screen
and what this will do is that it will
very subtly
ramp up the speed while you are reading
you won't even notice
that it's going faster and faster and
this is very important so you turn
automatic on and you let speechify read
to you
you want to continue doing this until it
starts to sound very very painful so
let's say that around
600 you are finding speechify hard to
follow
my step here would be to pause the app
turn automatic back off
and this will keep your speed at 600
words per minute
and this is where the work and the
challenge begins
remove the speed from the screen press
play and just listen to it
read this is the part that i warned
would be very very painful
it takes a lot more energy and focus
than we are usually used to pay
reading when you are at a high and
uncomfortable speed
so this will be not fun but if you bear
with it for as long as you can if you
would like to take a break
take a break please do so like i said it
will take a long time so i would
recommend
keeping it there for a few days or weeks
or
however long it takes for you to become
comfortable now
what is very important during this stage
is to keep both your eyes on the screen
and the volume
up preferably i will use earphones
because it sounds a lot clearer and it's
a lot less annoying for everyone else
i would always always look at the screen
this is the only way this works if i
would have 900
playing on the side and not looking at
the screen i'm not following
anything almost it's too fast i really
don't have superhuman listening skills
it's just the fact that i've trained my
eyes because i find my eyes can be a lot
better trained than my ears
so my personal theory is that the whole
trick is in the eyes
so i would always always keep my eyes on
the screen so
once you find it comfortable again i
would go back up to the speed and press
automatic press k and wait for it to get
painful again
pause rinse and repeat as necessary and
you can get yourself trained to
basically go at any reading speed
that you have ever dreamed of just for
reference here i started at around 700
when i first downloaded the app
and it took me about two months of using
speechify every single day
to get to 900 and now 900 feels too slow
most of the time
so it's definitely something that you
can train and i would
greatly recommend having this skill in
your back pocket
also there are other side effects to be
able to do this
now for example i listen to podcasts at
three times the speed
i watch youtube videos at 3.5 or four
times the speed
and i can even read normal books when i
want to
without speechify very very fast
although
this skill is a bit questionable i don't
think i'm as good at that i would
definitely recommend speech fight not
only as you're training wheels
to be a speed reader but also as a
secret weapon
because if you get yourself to those
high speeds and
you basically have a library of books
that you can blitz through at one or two
hours each
it's honestly game changing so i'm going
to stop selling this up as though it was
mine now
i hope you found this video helpful at
all if you have other tricks for speed
reading please let me know
and as always if you made it so far i
hope you have a wonderful rest of your
day be kind to yourself and others i
don't believe everything you think
thanks bye